President Biden is set to promote COVID-19 vaccine mandates for businesses during his rescheduled visit to Chicago Thursday, where he is set to meet with leaders in both the private and public sector, and will stress that those requirements will "accelerate" the end of the coronavirus pandemic. 

The president is set to meet with leaders in Chicago who have implemented vaccine requirements, including Illinois Gov. J.B. Pritzker, Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot and United Airlines CEO Scott Kirby. 

The president is set to visit a construction site in Elk Grove Village being built by Clayco, one of the largest construction companies in the Midwest. At the event, Clayco is expected to announce its "strong support" of Biden's plan to require vaccinations or weekly testing. The company is also set to announce its implementation of system of vaccinations or testing to all of their employees, in line with Biden's requirements. 

BIDEN DROPS TO 38% APPROVAL IN NEW NATIONAL POLL

Biden signed an executive order last month requiring that all workers in the Executive Branch be vaccinated against COVID-19. Biden also signed an order to require businesses with more than 100 workers to mandate coronavirus vaccinations. 

White House officials, in previewing the president's trip, said his message "will be clear." 

"Vaccination requirements work. Vaccination requirements get more people vaccinated, helping to end the pandemic and strengthen the economy," an official said. "That's why he's leading on implementing vaccination requirements for 100 million workers – two-thirds of all workers in the U.S." 

The official added, "That's why we're seeing growing momentum for vaccination requirements across sectors and across the country." 

COLORADO HOSPITAL DENIES KIDNEY TRANSPLANT TO WOMAN BECAUSE SHE DOES NOT HAVE THE COVID VACCINE

The White House, ahead of the visit Thursday, released a new report saying vaccination requirements are helping to drive up vaccination rates, put people back to work and strengthen the economy. 


The analysis, according to White House officials, looks at existing vaccination requirements in health care systems, educational institutions, businesses and the public sector. Officials said the report "demonstrates with data that vaccination requirements work and will accelerate our path out of the pandemic."

CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP

The report found that vaccination requirements have "already helped cut the rate of unvaccinated Americans by one-third" and stressed that increasing vaccination rates could return "up to 5 million workers to the labor force." 

Biden's trip to Chicago was initially scheduled for last week but was rescheduled amid negotiations with Congress on his Build Back Better Act and the bipartisan infrastructure deal.
Over the past couple of months, Allison, a wife and mother of a toddler and teenager in Chicago, says she’s been spending about $50 more each week on groceries to feed her family — and that’s at a discount supermarket chain, Aldi’s.


"I used to spend $70 a week, but all of sudden this summer, I noticed that I couldn’t leave the store without spending at least $120," said Allison, who works in education.

Like millions of Americans whose income has not kept pace with inflation — up 5.3 percent in August compared with a year ago — Allison and her family are feeling the pinch of the rising cost of living and giving up some things just to make ends meet.

Her family is scrimping now. "There are no more splurges like going to Home Depot to buy an extra plant or eating out," Allison said.

Spurred by supply shortages and massive government spending, inflation has become an added tax on middle-class Americans coming out of the COVID lockdowns.

BACON BECOMES LATEST VICTIM OF SUPPLY CHAIN DISRUPTIONS, INFLATION

For households earning the US median annual income of about $70,000, the current inflation rate has forced them to spend another $175 a month on food, fuel and housing, according to Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody’s Analytics.

"That’s the equivalent of a full grocery, electric or cellphone bill," Zandi said.

Although government officials have called the inflation "transitory," it’s running at a 30-year high, and has been for months.

Unpredictable supply-chain issues, including a record number of more than 70 cargo ships waiting to dock at the Port of Los Angeles, have made it difficult to predict when prices will stabilize.

To make matters worse, a trucker shortage has exacerbated the situation and shows no signs of abating. Everything from wood to electronics is becoming scarcer and more expensive.

Many consumer experts do not see any immediate relief in sight — with some bracing for a surge in credit-card debt. During the pandemic, many consumers had paid down debt because they were spending less while collecting larger unemployment checks.

But since April, credit-card balances and delinquency rates have been ticking up after decelerating for most of the pandemic, according to Zandi. Delinquencies are 1.54 percent as of Sept. 21, compared with 1.30 percent on April 21.

"Price increases will continue until the middle of next year," predicted Gordon Haskett analyst Chuck Grom, pointing to a PepsiCo announcement this week that consumers can expect another round of price hikes in early 2022 on the company’s snacks and beverages.

Indeed, a 10-ounce bag of Lay’s potato chips — Frito-Lay is owned by PepsiCo — cost $3.75 in August, 50 cents more than a year earlier at Dollar General stores in the Southwest, Grom said.

The prices of other items have also ratcheted up at the discount chain, including a dozen 12-ounce Coca-Cola cans that cost $5.75 in August — 50 cents more than in 2020 — at its Southwest stores, and a half a gallon of 2 percent store-brand milk that now costs $4.49, 74 cents more than a year earlier, according to Grom. At Family Dollar stores in the Northeast, the 12-pack of Coke cost $6.90 in August, up $1.50, and a can of Folger’s coffee costs 85 cents more, $8.80, he found.

In the Big Apple, grocery chains Gristedes and D’Agostino’s have increased prices by as much as 15 percent on chicken wings and beef, 10 percent on milk and 5 percent on eggs, while non-food related items have gone up by about 10 percent, according to owner John Catsimatidis.

GET FOX BUSINESS ON THE GO BY CLICKING HERE

What’s more, some consumers are reporting that it has become more difficult to cover their usual expenses.

The number of US households that report that it is "very difficult" to pay for their usual expenses has increased by 8 percent since early August, to 26.5 million, according to the Oct. 6 Census Bureau’s Household Pulse Survey.

Allison recently reached out to a debt-relief attorney, Leslie Tayne, to help her consolidate and lower her outstanding debt, which includes a hefty student loan.

"My business has exploded," Tayne told The Post.
Florida fugitive Brian Laundrie’s attorney said Wednesday that Christopher Laundrie would begin assisting authorities in the search for his son – who was last seen on Sept. 13, just days after his fiancée Gabby Petito officially became a missing person.

The FBI later uncovered Petito’s remains at a remote Wyoming campsite on Sept. 19.

"Chris Laundrie was asked to assist law enforcement in their search for Brian at the preserve today," Steve Bertolino, the family's attorney, told Fox News Wednesday night. "Since the preserve has been closed to the public, Chris has not been able to look for Brian in the only place Chris and Roberta believe Brian may be."

GABBY PETITO HOMICIDE: TIMELINE OF DISAPPEARANCE WITH BRIAN LAUNDRIE


(Fox News)

He added that North Port police "had to postpone" the elder's Laundrie's participation and that he did not take part in the search Wednesday, which saw an increased police presence after resources appeared to have been drawn down over the weekend.

GABBY PETITO: BRIAN LAUNDRIE'S ATTORNEY BELIEVES HE IS IN CARLTON RESERVE: LIVE UPDATES

"Chris and Roberta are hopeful there will be another opportunity to assist," he added, referring to both of Brian Laundrie's parents.

Josh Taylor, the North Port Police Department's chief spokesman, told Fox News that his department did not ask for Chris Laundrie's involvement – nor did police "postpone" it.

"In no world would we be the agency asking the family to help search in an FBI led investigation," he said, deferring further questions to the FBI, which did not immediately respond to a request for comment. He also declined to discuss whether North Port police had invited Chris Laundrie to join the search prior to the FBI taking over the case.

Pat Diaz, a former Miami-Dade homicide detective who also served on FBI task forces, said he doubted federal investigators would bring in a suspect's father to help their search.

"They may have found stuff in the reserve for the father to identify," he said. "Not a body, but belongings."


BRIAN LAUNDRIE SHOULD SURRENDER, FORMER FUGITIVE SAYS

Bertolino later clarified that the request "perhaps" came from "a liaison to FBI."

"My statement is correct," he said.

Earlier, he told Newsday that Chris Laundrie was "excited" to take part in the search – after weeks of remaining completely mum on the subject and barely leaving his home.

He also claimed that the elder Laundrie searched the T. Mabry Carlton Jr. Reserve on his own on Monday, Sept. 13 after his son failed to come home that night – even though the parents told police that Friday that they had last seen their son on Tuesday, according to the paper.

BRIAN LAUNDRIE'S SURVIALIST SKILLS ARE ‘MEDIOCRE,’ SAYS SISTER CASSIE

"The North Port police informed me that they were focusing on certain areas of the preserve today and they were actually hoping that Mr. Laundrie could join them on that search," Bertolino told the newspaper. "Mr. Laundrie has consented and we are waiting for the call from the North Port Police Department to make that happen."


Brian Laundrie had been named a person of interest in Petito’s disappearance days before authorities found her dead. On Sept. 23, the FBI announced a federal warrant for bank fraud charges after he allegedly used someone else’s debit card without authorization for more than $1,000.

CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP

His whereabouts remained unknown as of Wednesday evening – but a search at the reserve has continued for weeks, even with reports of possible sightings in other parts of Florida and along the Appalachian Trail where it runs down the border of North Carolina and Tennessee.

Michael Ruiz is a U.S. and World Reporter for Fox News.
Arizona authorities on Wednesday released findings from their investigation into the 2019 death of Lori Vallow's former husband. Vallow faces a conspiracy charge in the death and explained in a videotaped police interview what led to the fatal shooting.

The footage surfaces as Vallow and current husband Chad Daybell face multiple charges in connection with the deaths of her two children - Joshua "JJ" Vallow and 17-year-old Tylee Ryan - and Daybell's deceased wife, Tammy Daybell.

Charles Vallow, 62, was killed during a fight in a Pheonix-area home July 11, 2019. He died from multiple gunshot wounds, and his death was ruled a homicide, according to an autopsy report released last week.

Investigators concluded Lori Vallow's brother, Alex Cox, shot Charles Vallow to death. Cox claimed he acted in self-defense and was never charged. Cox died from natural causes in December 2019.

LORI VALLOW, CHAD DAYBELL INDICTED ON MURDER CHARGES IN CONNECTION TO HER CHILDREN'S DEATHS


In a video released by the Chandler Police Department, Vallow speaks with a detective hours after the shooting. In the first few minutes, she details the deterioration of her marriage.

"He's always mad at me. He doesn't want a divorce, but I don't like him and don't want to deal with him but that's just how it is," Vallow says.

As Charles Vallow was getting ready to take Joshua Vallow to school, he returned inside the home and an argument erupted between Charles and Lori. At one point, Tylee Ryan used a baseball bat to defend her mother, according to Vallow.

Moments later, Cox grabbed Charles, and they began wrestling on the floor, Vallow said. Lori then described hearing a gunshot, saying she didn't see the shooting.

"We were both just in shock," Vallow says.


Charles Vallow was shot in the chest and abdomen, an autopsy report says. He also had abrasions and contusions.

During police questioning, Lori said she took her son to school after the shooting. She also said Charles Vallow did not get along with her daughter.

"Absolutely he was going to hurt me and Tylee," Lori said. "Not JJ. He would never hurt  JJ. And he hurt my brother. He was going ballistic about … it was bad."

A medical examiner ruled the death of Charles Vallow, 62, former husband of Lori Vallow a homicide.
A medical examiner ruled the death of Charles Vallow, 62, former husband of Lori Vallow a homicide.  (KSAZ)

The interview ends after 25 minutes, and Vallow sits silently in a chair with her legs crossed for the rest of the nearly hour-long footage until she is escorted from the interview room.

CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP

Authorities also interviewed Tylee Ryan, who went missing two months later, along with her brother. Their remains were found in June 2020 on Daybell's Idaho property. Lori Vallow and Daybell each face first-degree murder charges in the deaths of the two children.

Her case is on hold after she was found unfit to stand trial.
The debt ceiling deal proposed by Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell is putting his GOP conference in a bind, with some Republicans accusing the formidable Senate tactician of folding in his standoff with Democrats and others refusing to go along with his strategy.

Despite three meetings in the span of 48 hours, Republicans remain at loggerheads, with party leaders struggling to unite their own ranks and find a path forward as they take a key procedural vote Thursday evening.
During a private 90-minute meeting on Thursday evening, Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas sharply disagreed with McConnell's strategy -- and insisted he would force a 60-vote threshold on the GOP leader's plan to avoid a debt default until early December. That means 10 Republicans would be forced to break a GOP-led filibuster in order to allow the debt ceiling increase to move ahead.
Debt ceiling: What to know as Congress nears an October 18 deadline
Debt ceiling: What to know as Congress nears an October 18 deadline
A number of GOP senators, such as fellow conservative Sen. Ron Johnson of Wisconsin, made the case that the McConnell deal -- while far from ideal -- should be allowed to pass with just 51 votes, allowing Democrats to vote for it and Republicans to vote against it. But Cruz -- along with his two allies, Sens. Mike Lee of Utah and Rand Paul of Kentucky, who were not at the meeting -- showed no signs of relenting.
The divisions over strategy and policy undercut the GOP leader's long-prized effort to maintain unity amid high-profile fights with Democrats. And it comes as Republicans are openly questioning his move, which he has privately defended as necessary to ensure that Democrats don't take steps to weaken the Senate's filibuster rules that give power to the minority party to scuttle the majority's agenda.
Sen. John Kennedy of Louisiana said he was "very disappointed" by McConnell's decision to allow Democrats to pursue a short-term debt ceiling hike under normal procedures. Cruz called the strategy a "serious mistake" and said he thinks "Democratic threats to destroy the filibuster caused him to give in." And Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina complained that "we had a plan and he threw it over."
"Why the hell would I make it easier for them to raise the debt ceiling through regular order?" Graham added in a statement.
McConnell has defended his approach both in public settings and behind closed doors, signaling to members that the future of the Senate rules may have been at stake.
One Republican senator defended McConnell, saying that "you would have to ask McConnell more about the conversations he had with (moderate Democratic Sens.) Joe Manchin and Kyrsten Sinema. I just believe in his estimation, it is about saving the institution of the Senate."
McConnell has also argued that helping Democrats punt the debt ceiling crisis now undermines Democrats' argument that they don't have enough time to use the complex budgetary process known as reconciliation to lift the nation's borrowing limit. And McConnell also pointed out that, as part of the deal, Democrats have to name a fixed dollar amount to which to raise the debt ceiling -- and they will have to own that number.
But not everyone in his conference is in agreement. And the palpable angst among Republicans is now throwing into question whether a debt-ceiling increase can quickly pass the chamber. At issue is rounding up 10 Republicans to allow the debt limit vote to proceed, though Democrats would still have to raise the ceiling on their own. GOP leaders had wanted their members to allow a quick up-or-down vote, but some Republicans had signaled they would object in order to force the 60-vote threshold.
Emerging from the closed-door, 90-minute meeting Thursday evening, GOP senators said it's still unclear if there will be 10 senators to break a filibuster on the short-term debt ceiling hike. The procedural vote is scheduled for later Thursday evening.
5 ways to save the economy and raise the debt ceiling
5 ways to save the economy and raise the debt ceiling
"There are disagreements within the conference, which is not surprising," Cruz said leaving the meeting. "Two days ago Republicans were unified. We were all on the same page. ... Schumer was on the verge of surrendering. And, unfortunately, the deal that was put on the table was a lifeline for Schumer, and I disagree with that decision."
GOP leaders continue to insist they will find a way forward.
"In the end we'll be there, but it's going to be a painful birthing process," said Sen. John Thune of South Dakota, the Senate GOP whip.
Inside McConnell's shift
McConnell for months had been warning Democrats that they will need to go it alone on a debt ceiling hike. That's why it caught some GOP members by surprise on Wednesday when the Kentucky Republican announced that he was going to offer Democrats a short-term off ramp to the fiscal crisis.
One member described it as "whiplash," while an aide confided that the discussion in the closed-door conference was a bit "rowdy."
"Some think that by having this delay, it's a sign of weakness," said Sen. Mike Braun of Indiana. "I don't think so."
One reason for McConnell's shift in thinking, according to multiple lawmakers: preserving the filibuster. With Republicans insisting that Democrats raise the debt ceiling on their own through reconciliation, and Democrats refusing to go that route, there were serious conversations inside the Democratic caucus this week about creating a carve-out to get around the filibuster in order to deal with the debt ceiling.
McConnell said during a closed-door lunch this week he was concerned about the pressure on Manchin and Sinema to change the Senate rules, according to sources, even as they showed no signs of budging.
"Let's save the institution of the Senate, and let's not test Joe Manchin's resolve," said Sen. Kevin Cramer of North Dakota, describing the thinking inside the Senate GOP.
McConnell's reversal has reverberated beyond the Senate Republican conference.
Conservative Rep. Chip Roy of Texas, a former Cruz staffer, blasted McConnell on Twitter and accused Republicans of folding because they didn't want to miss a fundraiser being hosted by the Senate GOP's campaign arm next week.
And former President Donald Trump, who has made bashing McConnell a regular habit, also accused the GOP leader of caving.
"Looks like Mitch McConnell is folding to the Democrats, again," Trump said in a statement. "He's got all of the cards with the debt ceiling, it's time to play the hand. Don't let them destroy our Country!"
Other Republicans, however, came to McConnell's defense, pointing out he was consistent in not wanting to let the nation to default on its debts and arguing Democrats will still have to address the debt ceiling — as well as government funding — in December, a messy scenario right before the holidays.
Cramer called the deal floated by McConnell an "elegant solution." But he also acknowledged that some of his Republican colleagues didn't share that view.
"It's been a lot more fun to watch Democrat-on-Democrat than it is to participate in Republican-on-Republican," Cramer said.
Jessica Dean and Ted Barrett contributed to this report.
Several people have been killed and others injured during an attack in the Norwegian town of Kongsberg, according to local police.

The suspected attacker was using a bow and arrow, a spokesman for Norway's southeastern police district, which includes Kongsberg, told CNN.
The suspect attacked people at several locations before he was arrested, the spokesman said. Local police were first alerted to the suspect at 615 PM local time.
In a case involving a Jan. 6 Capitol riot defendant, a federal judge held the District of Columbia's corrections director and jail warden in contempt of court Wednesday and asked the Justice Department to investigate whether inmates' civil rights are being abused.

U.S. District Judge Royce Lamberth had summoned the jail officials as part of the criminal case into Christopher Worrell, a member of the Proud Boys who has been charged in the Jan. 6 attack on the Capitol. He has been accused of attacking police officers with a pepper spray gel and prosecutors have alleged he traveled to Washington and coordinated with Proud Boys leading up to the siege.
"It's clear to me the civil rights of the defendant were violated by the D.C. Department of Corrections," Lamberth said. "I don't know if it's because he's a January 6 defendant or not."

The judge ordered Quincy Booth, the director of the city's Department of Corrections, and Wanda Patten, the warden of the DC Jail, to be held in contempt of court. While he did not impose any sanctions or penalties the judge said he was referring the matter to the Justice Department to investigate whether the civil rights of the inmates in the jail are being violated.

The move is likely to add steam to claims by activists and supporters of former President Donald Trump who have argued that defendants are being treated unfairly while they're locked up. The Associated Press reviewed hundreds of court and jail records for the Capitol riot defendants to uncover how many were being detained and found roughly 70 held in federal custody awaiting trial or sentencing hearings. At least 30 are jailed in Washington. The rest are locked up in facilities across the country.

Supporters of those jailed in Washington held a rally on Sept. 18, where they sought to highlight what they said were the disturbing treatment of suspects behind bars there.

A federal law known as the Civil Rights of Institutionalized Persons Act — commonly called CRIPA — allows prosecutors to review conditions of jails, prisons and other government-run facilities to identify if there is a systemic pattern of abuse or civil rights violations.

A spokesperson for the Department of Corrections did not respond to a message seeking comment on Wednesday.

The judge's ruling in Worrell's case comes after he found there was more than an "inexcusable" delay of jail officials turning over medical documents. Worrell, who broke his wrist in May, had been recommended for surgery in June but still hasn't undergone the procedure.

After the judge learned last week that the surgery still hadn't happened, he ordered the jail system to turn over notes to the U.S. Marshals Service — because Worrell is a federal inmate housed in the local jail — so the Marshals Service could move forward and approve the medical procedure. But on Tuesday, the jail still hadn't sent the records and the judge ordered the city jail officials to appear in court for a contempt hearing.

A lawyer for the jail had argued that they had been working to get the records together to comply with the court's order before the contempt hearing was set.

"He's needed an operation. He hasn't gotten it," the judge said.

The judge had separately chastised city officials for cutting down the number of rooms in the jail for virtual court visits and for sending an inmate to his court a few weeks ago when they did not have the results of a coronavirus test, saying the "incompetence of jail officials" led to the prisoner being sent back and forth from court without appearing before the judge.

The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit has set standards for judges to apply in deciding whether to jail a Capitol riot defendant. A three-judge panel of the appeals court ruled in March that rioters accused of assaulting officers, breaking through windows, doors and barricades, or playing leadership roles in the attack were in "a different category of dangerousness" than those who merely cheered on the violence or entered the building after it was breached.