President Biden is set to promote COVID-19 vaccine mandates for businesses during his rescheduled visit to Chicago Thursday, where he is set to meet with leaders in both the private and public sector, and will stress that those requirements will "accelerate" the end of the coronavirus pandemic. 

The president is set to meet with leaders in Chicago who have implemented vaccine requirements, including Illinois Gov. J.B. Pritzker, Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot and United Airlines CEO Scott Kirby. 

The president is set to visit a construction site in Elk Grove Village being built by Clayco, one of the largest construction companies in the Midwest. At the event, Clayco is expected to announce its "strong support" of Biden's plan to require vaccinations or weekly testing. The company is also set to announce its implementation of system of vaccinations or testing to all of their employees, in line with Biden's requirements. 

BIDEN DROPS TO 38% APPROVAL IN NEW NATIONAL POLL

Biden signed an executive order last month requiring that all workers in the Executive Branch be vaccinated against COVID-19. Biden also signed an order to require businesses with more than 100 workers to mandate coronavirus vaccinations. 

White House officials, in previewing the president's trip, said his message "will be clear." 

"Vaccination requirements work. Vaccination requirements get more people vaccinated, helping to end the pandemic and strengthen the economy," an official said. "That's why he's leading on implementing vaccination requirements for 100 million workers – two-thirds of all workers in the U.S." 

The official added, "That's why we're seeing growing momentum for vaccination requirements across sectors and across the country." 

COLORADO HOSPITAL DENIES KIDNEY TRANSPLANT TO WOMAN BECAUSE SHE DOES NOT HAVE THE COVID VACCINE

The White House, ahead of the visit Thursday, released a new report saying vaccination requirements are helping to drive up vaccination rates, put people back to work and strengthen the economy. 


The analysis, according to White House officials, looks at existing vaccination requirements in health care systems, educational institutions, businesses and the public sector. Officials said the report "demonstrates with data that vaccination requirements work and will accelerate our path out of the pandemic."

CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP

The report found that vaccination requirements have "already helped cut the rate of unvaccinated Americans by one-third" and stressed that increasing vaccination rates could return "up to 5 million workers to the labor force." 

Biden's trip to Chicago was initially scheduled for last week but was rescheduled amid negotiations with Congress on his Build Back Better Act and the bipartisan infrastructure deal.
Over the past couple of months, Allison, a wife and mother of a toddler and teenager in Chicago, says she’s been spending about $50 more each week on groceries to feed her family — and that’s at a discount supermarket chain, Aldi’s.


"I used to spend $70 a week, but all of sudden this summer, I noticed that I couldn’t leave the store without spending at least $120," said Allison, who works in education.

Like millions of Americans whose income has not kept pace with inflation — up 5.3 percent in August compared with a year ago — Allison and her family are feeling the pinch of the rising cost of living and giving up some things just to make ends meet.

Her family is scrimping now. "There are no more splurges like going to Home Depot to buy an extra plant or eating out," Allison said.

Spurred by supply shortages and massive government spending, inflation has become an added tax on middle-class Americans coming out of the COVID lockdowns.

BACON BECOMES LATEST VICTIM OF SUPPLY CHAIN DISRUPTIONS, INFLATION

For households earning the US median annual income of about $70,000, the current inflation rate has forced them to spend another $175 a month on food, fuel and housing, according to Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody’s Analytics.

"That’s the equivalent of a full grocery, electric or cellphone bill," Zandi said.

Although government officials have called the inflation "transitory," it’s running at a 30-year high, and has been for months.

Unpredictable supply-chain issues, including a record number of more than 70 cargo ships waiting to dock at the Port of Los Angeles, have made it difficult to predict when prices will stabilize.

To make matters worse, a trucker shortage has exacerbated the situation and shows no signs of abating. Everything from wood to electronics is becoming scarcer and more expensive.

Many consumer experts do not see any immediate relief in sight — with some bracing for a surge in credit-card debt. During the pandemic, many consumers had paid down debt because they were spending less while collecting larger unemployment checks.

But since April, credit-card balances and delinquency rates have been ticking up after decelerating for most of the pandemic, according to Zandi. Delinquencies are 1.54 percent as of Sept. 21, compared with 1.30 percent on April 21.

"Price increases will continue until the middle of next year," predicted Gordon Haskett analyst Chuck Grom, pointing to a PepsiCo announcement this week that consumers can expect another round of price hikes in early 2022 on the company’s snacks and beverages.

Indeed, a 10-ounce bag of Lay’s potato chips — Frito-Lay is owned by PepsiCo — cost $3.75 in August, 50 cents more than a year earlier at Dollar General stores in the Southwest, Grom said.

The prices of other items have also ratcheted up at the discount chain, including a dozen 12-ounce Coca-Cola cans that cost $5.75 in August — 50 cents more than in 2020 — at its Southwest stores, and a half a gallon of 2 percent store-brand milk that now costs $4.49, 74 cents more than a year earlier, according to Grom. At Family Dollar stores in the Northeast, the 12-pack of Coke cost $6.90 in August, up $1.50, and a can of Folger’s coffee costs 85 cents more, $8.80, he found.

In the Big Apple, grocery chains Gristedes and D’Agostino’s have increased prices by as much as 15 percent on chicken wings and beef, 10 percent on milk and 5 percent on eggs, while non-food related items have gone up by about 10 percent, according to owner John Catsimatidis.

GET FOX BUSINESS ON THE GO BY CLICKING HERE

What’s more, some consumers are reporting that it has become more difficult to cover their usual expenses.

The number of US households that report that it is "very difficult" to pay for their usual expenses has increased by 8 percent since early August, to 26.5 million, according to the Oct. 6 Census Bureau’s Household Pulse Survey.

Allison recently reached out to a debt-relief attorney, Leslie Tayne, to help her consolidate and lower her outstanding debt, which includes a hefty student loan.

"My business has exploded," Tayne told The Post.
Florida fugitive Brian Laundrie’s attorney said Wednesday that Christopher Laundrie would begin assisting authorities in the search for his son – who was last seen on Sept. 13, just days after his fiancée Gabby Petito officially became a missing person.

The FBI later uncovered Petito’s remains at a remote Wyoming campsite on Sept. 19.

"Chris Laundrie was asked to assist law enforcement in their search for Brian at the preserve today," Steve Bertolino, the family's attorney, told Fox News Wednesday night. "Since the preserve has been closed to the public, Chris has not been able to look for Brian in the only place Chris and Roberta believe Brian may be."

GABBY PETITO HOMICIDE: TIMELINE OF DISAPPEARANCE WITH BRIAN LAUNDRIE


(Fox News)

He added that North Port police "had to postpone" the elder's Laundrie's participation and that he did not take part in the search Wednesday, which saw an increased police presence after resources appeared to have been drawn down over the weekend.

GABBY PETITO: BRIAN LAUNDRIE'S ATTORNEY BELIEVES HE IS IN CARLTON RESERVE: LIVE UPDATES

"Chris and Roberta are hopeful there will be another opportunity to assist," he added, referring to both of Brian Laundrie's parents.

Josh Taylor, the North Port Police Department's chief spokesman, told Fox News that his department did not ask for Chris Laundrie's involvement – nor did police "postpone" it.

"In no world would we be the agency asking the family to help search in an FBI led investigation," he said, deferring further questions to the FBI, which did not immediately respond to a request for comment. He also declined to discuss whether North Port police had invited Chris Laundrie to join the search prior to the FBI taking over the case.

Pat Diaz, a former Miami-Dade homicide detective who also served on FBI task forces, said he doubted federal investigators would bring in a suspect's father to help their search.

"They may have found stuff in the reserve for the father to identify," he said. "Not a body, but belongings."


BRIAN LAUNDRIE SHOULD SURRENDER, FORMER FUGITIVE SAYS

Bertolino later clarified that the request "perhaps" came from "a liaison to FBI."

"My statement is correct," he said.

Earlier, he told Newsday that Chris Laundrie was "excited" to take part in the search – after weeks of remaining completely mum on the subject and barely leaving his home.

He also claimed that the elder Laundrie searched the T. Mabry Carlton Jr. Reserve on his own on Monday, Sept. 13 after his son failed to come home that night – even though the parents told police that Friday that they had last seen their son on Tuesday, according to the paper.

BRIAN LAUNDRIE'S SURVIALIST SKILLS ARE ‘MEDIOCRE,’ SAYS SISTER CASSIE

"The North Port police informed me that they were focusing on certain areas of the preserve today and they were actually hoping that Mr. Laundrie could join them on that search," Bertolino told the newspaper. "Mr. Laundrie has consented and we are waiting for the call from the North Port Police Department to make that happen."


Brian Laundrie had been named a person of interest in Petito’s disappearance days before authorities found her dead. On Sept. 23, the FBI announced a federal warrant for bank fraud charges after he allegedly used someone else’s debit card without authorization for more than $1,000.

CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP

His whereabouts remained unknown as of Wednesday evening – but a search at the reserve has continued for weeks, even with reports of possible sightings in other parts of Florida and along the Appalachian Trail where it runs down the border of North Carolina and Tennessee.

Michael Ruiz is a U.S. and World Reporter for Fox News.
Arizona authorities on Wednesday released findings from their investigation into the 2019 death of Lori Vallow's former husband. Vallow faces a conspiracy charge in the death and explained in a videotaped police interview what led to the fatal shooting.

The footage surfaces as Vallow and current husband Chad Daybell face multiple charges in connection with the deaths of her two children - Joshua "JJ" Vallow and 17-year-old Tylee Ryan - and Daybell's deceased wife, Tammy Daybell.

Charles Vallow, 62, was killed during a fight in a Pheonix-area home July 11, 2019. He died from multiple gunshot wounds, and his death was ruled a homicide, according to an autopsy report released last week.

Investigators concluded Lori Vallow's brother, Alex Cox, shot Charles Vallow to death. Cox claimed he acted in self-defense and was never charged. Cox died from natural causes in December 2019.

LORI VALLOW, CHAD DAYBELL INDICTED ON MURDER CHARGES IN CONNECTION TO HER CHILDREN'S DEATHS


In a video released by the Chandler Police Department, Vallow speaks with a detective hours after the shooting. In the first few minutes, she details the deterioration of her marriage.

"He's always mad at me. He doesn't want a divorce, but I don't like him and don't want to deal with him but that's just how it is," Vallow says.

As Charles Vallow was getting ready to take Joshua Vallow to school, he returned inside the home and an argument erupted between Charles and Lori. At one point, Tylee Ryan used a baseball bat to defend her mother, according to Vallow.

Moments later, Cox grabbed Charles, and they began wrestling on the floor, Vallow said. Lori then described hearing a gunshot, saying she didn't see the shooting.

"We were both just in shock," Vallow says.


Charles Vallow was shot in the chest and abdomen, an autopsy report says. He also had abrasions and contusions.

During police questioning, Lori said she took her son to school after the shooting. She also said Charles Vallow did not get along with her daughter.

"Absolutely he was going to hurt me and Tylee," Lori said. "Not JJ. He would never hurt  JJ. And he hurt my brother. He was going ballistic about … it was bad."

A medical examiner ruled the death of Charles Vallow, 62, former husband of Lori Vallow a homicide.
A medical examiner ruled the death of Charles Vallow, 62, former husband of Lori Vallow a homicide.  (KSAZ)

The interview ends after 25 minutes, and Vallow sits silently in a chair with her legs crossed for the rest of the nearly hour-long footage until she is escorted from the interview room.

CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP

Authorities also interviewed Tylee Ryan, who went missing two months later, along with her brother. Their remains were found in June 2020 on Daybell's Idaho property. Lori Vallow and Daybell each face first-degree murder charges in the deaths of the two children.

Her case is on hold after she was found unfit to stand trial.